README.md, before:

# Séance — a ritual to channel the unseen

*Séance* is simple tool to make it easy to proxy messages under a bot account. It includes a Discord bot, and a very experimental Telegram bot.

## The Ritual

Séance is written in Python, and as such can be easily installed via pip: `pip3 install git+https://github.com/Qyriad/Seance`.

Once it is installed, the Discord bot can be run with `seance-discord`. The Discord bot requires a Discord [bot token](https://discord.com/developers/applications) passed with `--token` or the `$SEANCE_DISCORD_TOKEN` environment variable, the [snowflake ID](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/user#user-object-user-structure) of the user to recognize messages to proxy from passed with `--ref-user-id` or the `$SEANCE_DISCORD_REF_USER_ID` environment variable, and a pattern in [Python regex](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#regular-expression-syntax) passed with `--pattern` or the `$SEANCE_DISCORD_PATTERN` environment variable. The pattern must include a [named capture group](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#index-17) called `content`, which defines the content to proxy.

Okay, that sounds really complicated, so here's an example, where the format for proxying messages is anything that starts `b:` — capital or lowercase.

```sh
$ seance-discord --token ODDFOFXUpgf7yEntul5ockCA.OFk6Ph.lmsA54bT0Fux1IpsYvey5XuZk04 --ref-user-id 188344527881400991 --pattern "[bB]:(?P<content>.*)"
```

Note that the Discord bot also requires the Presence and Server Members Privileged Gateway Intents, which can be enabled in the "Bot" settings of the Discord application page.

### Config File

Anything that can be passed as a command-line option can also be specified an INI config file. Options for the Discord bot are placed under a `[Discord]` section, with the name of the INI key being the same as the command-line option without the leading `--`. Words can be separated by dashes, underscores, or spaces. For example, `--ref-user-id 188344527881400991` can be any of the following:
```ini
ref_user_id = 188344527881400991
ref user id = 188344527881400991
ref-user-id = 188344527881400991
```

Specify the config file to use on the command-line with `--config /path/to/file` (this is the one option that cannot itself be passed in a config file 😉). Options specified on the command line override options specified in a configuration file.

An example configuration file (which is functionally identical to the `seance-discord` CLI example invocation above) can be found in [contrib/](contrib/seance.ini).

### Commands

Once started, the bot also accepts a few chat commands:
- `!edit [reply|link] <new content>` — takes a reply or a link to a message, and the new message content
- `!s/pattern/replacement` — takes a reply, and a sed-style substitution command to edit a message
- `!status [playing | streaming | listening to | watching | competing in] <status>` — sets the bot's status ("playing" is the default if not specified)
- `!presence [invisible|dnd|idle|online|sync]` — sets the bot's presence to the specified value, or sets it to synchronize it to the reference user
- `!nick [nickname]` — sets the bot's nickname

The Séance CLI also takes an optional argument `--prefix`, which is an additional prefix to accept commands with. This is intended for cases where a single Discord user has more than one associated Séance bot, in order to be able to direct commands to a particular instance. For example, passing `--prefix b` allows you to run the chat command `b!status` to set the status for that specific instance of Séance.

### systemd

There is also a sample file for running the Séance Discord bot as a systemd service in [contrib](contrib/seance-discord.service). Note that for proper systemd support the Python package `sdnotify` is also required (`pip3 install sdnotify`). If you do not wish to enable this feature, you should remove the `--systemd-notify` argument from the provided service. 

It is suggested that you create a specific non-privileged user to run the bot under, the service config assumes this user is called "seance". 

Such a user can be created with `sudo useradd seance`. To avoid installing Séance globally, which might be ill-advised, you can create a home directory for the user, something like `sudo useradd --create-home --home-dir /srv/seance seance` will create a home directory for the user in `/srv/seance`. 

To install seance and sdnotify for this user use `sudo -u seance pip3 install --user sdnotify git+https://github.com/Qyriad/Seance`.

### Nix and NixOS

Séance provides a Nix flake, this flake contains a package definition for Séance and a NixOS service module for
configuring and running it.

To use the module in your NixOS configuration:

1. Add the Séance flake to your NixOS configuration: `seance.url = "github:Qyriad/Séance.git"`.
2. Import the NixOS module somewhere in your configuration: `{ seance, ... }: { imports = [ seance.nixosModules.default ]; };`.
3. Configure the services [see example](./contrib/example.nix).
4. Rebuild your NixOS configuration.


### Discord DM Mode

TODO: fill this out more >.>

#### Limitations:

- Bots do not receive typing notifications in DMs, so typing notification in a DM to the Séance user will not be proxied to the DM server.
- Bots cannot be added to group DMs, so neither can Séance users


## Comparison to PluralKit

Pros of Séance over PluralKit on Discord:
- Much faster proxy times
- No webhooks; real Discord account
  - Role colors in name
  - Real replies

Cons of Séance over PluralKit on Discord:
- Requires self-hosting
- Requires a separate instance for each proxy/account
- Each instance requires Manage Messages permissions on each server
- Only a tool for proxying; not an all-in-one plural companion tool and never will be

Commit message:

discord: implement force proxied emoji (resolves #11)
This adds a new feature to Séance where reference user reactions of
emoji can automatically be proxied. Any emoji provided by the
`proxied-emoji` config value will be proxied.

This removes the ability of the reference user to react with those emoji
and is primarily assumed to be used for things like custom heart
reactions that are unique per-user, making their usage easier.

The valid config value is a comma or whitespace separated list of
unicode emoji and Discord custom emoji IDs that should be handled this
way. `*` may also be used to indicate that *all* reactions by the
reference user should be proxied.

This commit also revises the README to more clearly list the available
configuration options.

README.md, after:

# Séance — a ritual to channel the unseen

*Séance* is simple tool to make it easy to proxy messages under a bot account. It includes a Discord bot, and a very experimental Telegram bot.

## The Ritual

Séance is written in Python, and as such can be easily installed via pip: `pip3 install git+https://github.com/Qyriad/Seance`.

Once it is installed, the Discord bot can be run with `seance-discord`. The Discord bot requires a Discord [bot token](https://discord.com/developers/applications) passed with `--token` or the `$SEANCE_DISCORD_TOKEN` environment variable, the [snowflake ID](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/user#user-object-user-structure) of the user to recognize messages to proxy from passed with `--ref-user-id` or the `$SEANCE_DISCORD_REF_USER_ID` environment variable, and a pattern in [Python regex](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#regular-expression-syntax) passed with `--pattern` or the `$SEANCE_DISCORD_PATTERN` environment variable. The pattern must include a [named capture group](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#index-17) called `content`, which defines the content to proxy.

Okay, that sounds really complicated, so here's an example, where the format for proxying messages is anything that starts `b:` — capital or lowercase.

```sh
$ seance-discord --token ODDFOFXUpgf7yEntul5ockCA.OFk6Ph.lmsA54bT0Fux1IpsYvey5XuZk04 --ref-user-id 188344527881400991 --pattern "[bB]:(?P<content>.*)"
```

Note that the Discord bot also requires the Presence and Server Members Privileged Gateway Intents, which can be enabled in the "Bot" settings of the Discord application page.

### Options

These are the available configuration options, configured as described [below](#config-file).

#### Discord
- `token` - The Discord bot token used to authenticate, **important**: this must be kept secret as it allows anyone to control your bot account.
- `ref-user-id` - The reference user's Discord ID. This is the user account allowed to proxy messages and execute Séance commands.
- `pattern` - The regular expression pattern used to match a message to be proxied. Must contain a group named `content` which should contain the message body that will be in the proxied message.
- `prefix` - A prefix that can be used before a `!` command (such as `!edit`) to uniquely indicate that this instance of Séance should handle the command. Unprefixed commands are always accepted, even when this is set.
- `proxied-emoji` - A whitespace or comma separated list of unicode emoji (`🤝`) and Discord custom emoji ID numbers that will *always* be reproxied by Séance when used as a reaction by the reference user. The reference user will *not* be able to react with this emoji themselves, it will always be removed.

- **TODO: DM Mode configuration**


#### Telegram
**TODO**

### Config File

Anything that can be passed as a command-line option can also be specified an INI config file. Options for the Discord bot are placed under a `[Discord]` section, with the name of the INI key being the same as the command-line option without the leading `--`. Words can be separated by dashes, underscores, or spaces. For example, `--ref-user-id 188344527881400991` can be any of the following:
```ini
ref_user_id = 188344527881400991
ref user id = 188344527881400991
ref-user-id = 188344527881400991
```

Specify the config file to use on the command-line with `--config /path/to/file` (this is the one option that cannot itself be passed in a config file 😉). Options specified on the command line override options specified in a configuration file.

An example configuration file (which is functionally identical to the `seance-discord` CLI example invocation above) can be found in [contrib/](contrib/seance.ini).

### Commands

Once started, the bot also accepts a few chat commands:
- `!edit [reply|link] <new content>` — takes a reply or a link to a message, and the new message content
- `!s/pattern/replacement` — takes a reply, and a sed-style substitution command to edit a message
- `!status [playing | streaming | listening to | watching | competing in] <status>` — sets the bot's status ("playing" is the default if not specified)
- `!presence [invisible|dnd|idle|online|sync]` — sets the bot's presence to the specified value, or sets it to synchronize it to the reference user
- `!nick [nickname]` — sets the bot's nickname

The Séance CLI also takes an optional argument `--prefix`, which is an additional prefix to accept commands with. This is intended for cases where a single Discord user has more than one associated Séance bot, in order to be able to direct commands to a particular instance. For example, passing `--prefix b` allows you to run the chat command `b!status` to set the status for that specific instance of Séance.

### systemd

There is also a sample file for running the Séance Discord bot as a systemd service in [contrib](contrib/seance-discord.service). Note that for proper systemd support the Python package `sdnotify` is also required (`pip3 install sdnotify`). If you do not wish to enable this feature, you should remove the `--systemd-notify` argument from the provided service. 

It is suggested that you create a specific non-privileged user to run the bot under, the service config assumes this user is called "seance". 

Such a user can be created with `sudo useradd seance`. To avoid installing Séance globally, which might be ill-advised, you can create a home directory for the user, something like `sudo useradd --create-home --home-dir /srv/seance seance` will create a home directory for the user in `/srv/seance`. 

To install seance and sdnotify for this user use `sudo -u seance pip3 install --user sdnotify git+https://github.com/Qyriad/Seance`.

### Nix and NixOS

Séance provides a Nix flake, this flake contains a package definition for Séance and a NixOS service module for
configuring and running it.

To use the module in your NixOS configuration:

1. Add the Séance flake to your NixOS configuration: `seance.url = "github:Qyriad/Séance.git"`.
2. Import the NixOS module somewhere in your configuration: `{ seance, ... }: { imports = [ seance.nixosModules.default ]; };`.
3. Configure the services [see example](./contrib/example.nix).
4. Rebuild your NixOS configuration.


### Discord DM Mode

TODO: fill this out more >.>

#### Limitations:

- Bots do not receive typing notifications in DMs, so typing notification in a DM to the Séance user will not be proxied to the DM server.
- Bots cannot be added to group DMs, so neither can Séance users


## Comparison to PluralKit

Pros of Séance over PluralKit on Discord:
- Much faster proxy times
- No webhooks; real Discord account
  - Role colors in name
  - Real replies
- Easily proxy emoji reactions

Cons of Séance over PluralKit on Discord:
- Requires self-hosting
- Requires a separate instance for each proxy/account
- Each instance requires Manage Messages permissions on each server
- Only a tool for proxying; not an all-in-one plural companion tool and never will be
